Hello and welcome in this lecture we are implementing dwell time in our waypoint behavior and our patrolling
behavior so that our enemy can stop for a certain amount of time at every waypoint configurable amount
of time.
Let's dive in and see how it's done.
So implementing it to all time is mostly gonna be a challenge for you because it is repeating a lot
of the stuff we have already done.
But before we do that there's a couple of tweaks I would like to do.
So the first one is that these patrol paths we won't find them a little bit cumbersome to work with
before because they were attached to the prefab.
So what I'm actually going to do is I'm going to go ahead and break the prefab by right clicking on
it and going to unpack prefab completely.
And this just breaks the link entirely.
GONNA DO THIS FOR BOTH OF THEM AND YOU MIGHT wondering why do we have a prefab why do we bother there.
Well because the prefab does allow us quite easily to get a designer started so a designer wants to
create new patrol path they go and dump the patrol path prefab in and then they can break it and tweak
it.
So that's the idea but the patrol paths are intrinsically linked with a world.
So it makes sense that they exist only in that world and that they're part of the same file.
I've kind of rethought it from her original lecture but that's fine you know these decisions are iterative
and we think about it.
We try it out see what the implications are and then adjust.
So the other thing I don't like at the moment is that if I want to attack this character if I've been
running around and my mouse hovers over him Look I just stop moving now.
The reason for this you could have a little go at seeing why this is happening for yourself if you like
the clue would be here in the play control.
So yes if you want to have a look.
But basically what's going on is that we've been moving we've not had our mouse over anything that can
handle combat.
So we've been moving but our mouse goes over something that can handle combat and look what happens.
It right cast hits I mean it can handle combat and whether or not we attack it it returns true.
So we stop moving as soon as our cursor goes over something we can attack which is good but also not
so good because we haven't actually attacked it would be much more natural if while we are moving our
cursor around in the game world.
Let's try again.
I start attacking that character so that's how I'm going to tweak it so that instead of having this
get mouse button down it's going to be the same as movements to have get button down.
And that's really all that tweak and tails and very very simple nice nice bindings a simple isn't it.
So if I hold down over him then it attacks my mouse away then it will run away.
So that's quite a natural feeling of attacking system there.
Okay.
So without further ado let's get into your challenge to implement dwelling.
So this is gonna be similar to the time since I last saw player.
So that's over in the A.I. controller and we've got this variable which is handling all time since last
saw play it's going to be really similar to that in that we're going to be updating it when we reach
a waypoint and then you need to move to the next waypoint only after a configurable time has elapsed.
So you're going to have to all the same sorts of things as time since last saw player in order to do
this.
So it's really gonna test out your knowledge to see if you understand how these kinds of timers are
working.
Pause video and have a go okay.
So there are a few things we're doing with time since last saw player the first one is we're setting
it to zero.
When we do attack we are checking it before we do suspicious behavior.
We're making sure that if it's less than the time that's elapsed then we can do the suspicious behavior.
Now what do we want to do with our time.
Well let's first implement the timer.
So again I think we're going to need it to start off at infinity because we haven't arrived at a waypoint
time since I arrived at waypoint.
At the moment we haven't arrived at waypoint so the time is infinite.
And what is it that we want to limit when we do this.
Well if we go down to our patrol behavior what we want to limit is when we can move to the next waypoint.
So we want to say that if time since arrived at waypoint is greater than and then we want some kind
of configurable time.
So we'll have a serialize field up at the top of the file for floats waypoints dwell time.
Okay.
And then we're going to dwell there for three seconds so that if we go back to our behavior that patrol
behavior time since arrived at waypoint is greater than waypoints dwell time then that is when we can
start moving to the next waypoint.
But when is it that they should get reset the time since arrived at waypoint.
Well when we do arrive at a waypoint which is in here if we have a patrol path and if we are at the
waypoint then we're cycling the waypoint and we're setting the times it's arrived at waypoint to zero.
One more thing we have to do is update it in every update.
So time since last saw a plan and time since arrived at waypoint we undo plus equal time delta time.
Now notice these two things are doing very similar stuff.
I'm gonna actually hide them extract them into a method called update timers like so and then if we
wanted to because we've started hiding these timers then we could update the time since last so player
to actually go inside the attack behavior itself so that things are just a bit cleaner because we're
not seeing the timers at these level this level any way because of the patrol behavior hiding its timers.
So it kind of they kind of explain what they do already in their name the time since arrived at waypoint
as long as you make sure those timers are getting updated then everything works just fine.
So shall we see whether this is going to work or not.
I'm going to get out of the way of this guard he's gonna go to his waypoints and have a look in the
same view.
Now he's waiting his waypoint for a little bit of time and moves onto the next one waits at his waypoint
for a little bit of time and then moves on to the next one and hopefully we should be able to see that
if we select the right enemy.
And I go and find his waypoint to well time I can make it really small so he just spends half a second
there.
Let's see if he does that yet.
He spends less time or we can make it really large frame.
Five seconds it gets there and then he has to wait five seconds before he can move on so you can do
a lot to adjust the way that these guards patrol so that it's not completely obvious to the player how
this guard is going to actually patrol whether he's going to go down this route down that route.
You can make the routes more complicated.
So sometimes they look back on themselves but then loop off in another direction.
You can add lots of uncertainty to the player in that regard.
If you want to add some kind of stealthy elements you can add dwelling in and so on and so forth.
Got lots of design levers that we can pull from this waypoint system.
So with that said I'm going to hand you over to Rick for the next lectures where you're going to lay
out this level to actually be challenging and fun to play through with this A.I..